---
title: "Multi-channel EEG Signals Classification Via CNN and Multi-head Self-attention on Evidence Theory"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/ins2022
excerpt: '[Download paper here](https://langzhang2000.github.io/files/Multi-channel_EEG_Signals_Classification_Via_CNN_and_Multi-head_Self-attention_on_Evidence_Theory.pdf)'
date: 2023-06-03
venue: 'International Journal of Intelligent Systems'
paperurl: 
citation:
---
Abstract: Dempster-Shafer (D-S) evidence theory is invaluable in the domain of multisource information fusion for handing uncertainty problems. However, there may be counter-intuitive phenomenon when facing highly conflicting information. In this paper, a novel symmetric enhanced belief $\chi^2$ divergence measure, called $SEB\chi^2$, is proposed to measure the discrepancy between basic probability assignments (BPAs). The $SEB\chi^2$ divergence consider the features of BPAs as the influence of both single-element subsets and multielement subsets is taken into account. Furthermore, the $SEB\chi^2$ divergence is proven to be symmetric, nonnegative and nondegenerate, which are desirable properties for conflict management. Then, a new algorithm for multisource information fusion based on the $SEB\chi^2$ divergence measure is derived. Finally, an application for pattern classification is used to illustrate the superiority of the proposed $SEB\chi^2$ divergence measure-based fusion method over other existing well-known and recent related works with a better classification accuracy of 94.39%.

[Download paper here](https://langzhang2000.github.io/files/Published_paper-Int_J_of_Intelligent_Sys_2022_Zhang.pdf)

Recommended citation:Zhang, L., & Xiao, F. (2022). A novel belief $\chi^2$ divergence for multisource information fusion and its application in pattern classification. International Journal of Intelligent Systems, 37(10), 7968-7991.
